I would like to tell you all a story about how I
ended up supporting the game dev industry on blue sky and the
atmosphere, accidentally.
But first, an introduction.
My name is Trezzy.
I've lived many lives.
I've been a professional musician, an indie filmmaker, I
've been a graphic designer, a stunt actor, but most
importantly, I've been a software engineer for more than two
decades and I've been working in and around the games industry
for many years.
I'm also the founder of Burb House Games.
It's a game studio focused on building games using web technologies
.
I'm also the curator of the game dev feeds on blue
sky, the operator of the games industry labeler, also
on blue sky, the author of happy view and debuff
and the steward of the Penaract, the founder
of cartridge, but I might be maybe getting a little bit
ahead of myself here, so we'll we'll get into
all of it.
I want to preface this story by saying that I did
not start this journey that I'm about to describe with some
master plan.
I didn't sit down and say I'm going to save
video games.
I joined blue sky because I was mad at Twitter and so
I started building because that's just sort of what I do
and once the ball was rolling there wasn't a whole lot
of stopping it.
So I'm going to walk you all through how I got
to where I am today with all the things that I've
built and I'm hopeful that you know with that discussion I
can help others get started on some new projects, maybe find
direction on things that they've already begun, but most importantly
by the end of this thing we're going to try and
distill a blueprint that you and other builders can use to make
the atmosphere work for whatever industry you care about.
To kick things off let me tell you about the game dev
feeds.
When blue sky launched custom feeds I was stoked.
Not only were we getting algorithmic choice but we had community
control over it and that was such a powerful idea.
I was hooked.
I love video games and the game development community so I thought
it sure would be cool to gather all of that content in
a way that has never happened on Twitter.
So I built the game dev feeds.
There's the core of the game dev feed itself, which
is sort of the core of the community.
It acts as a town hall for our our little band.
There's also game news.
We've got jobs and careers.
I also have the screenshot Saturday and Wishlist Wednesday feeds which
are both manifest versions of hashtag trends that game devs used
to use on on Twitter to share their games outside of the
developer community.
At first these were nice little community tools.
There were, you know, tens of people using them.
I was very happy with that.
And then there were hundreds and then suddenly there were thousands of
feeds blew up and today I have around 32,000 daily
active users across the feeds.
It's probably a drop in the bucket for Indra's
news feeds but for a much smaller community like game devs
it's it's pretty exciting.
So I hadn't planned for it but the community that had
been gathering slowly suddenly they decided that blue sky and specifically the
feeds that I've been building made for a pretty good place
to be.
Shout out by the way to great social who hosts all of
my feeds they've provided me with the tools that enable the
feeds to thrive the way they do today.
If it wasn't for Devon reaching out about a year
ago I don't know if I'd be up here speaking
.
A bit of time passed.
Many alfs were exchanged and then blue sky launched labelers
.
I thought, as I was seeing what other people were doing
with them, what if I could build a labeler that
helps people in the game dev industry find other professionals and track
them throughout their timelines.
Developers, studios, publishers, journalists, media creators.
It seemed like a fun little project.
So I built it.
I set up my own Ozone instance.
I was manually reviewing every request.
It blew up.
I was completely underwater with thousands of labeling requests coming through.
But the community found it really useful.
It helped them define and understand professional relationships and trust relationships across
blue sky.
Today, the labeler has over 6,000 game developers
, 450 studios, nearly 500 content creators in the games space
, 700 games business folks, more than 150 games journalists.
In total, like we said earlier, I applied more than
9,000 labels to games industry professionals and businesses.
The games industry, you know, it's continued to show
up on the atmosphere in a way that I really never expected
.
And I didn't know it at the time.
But working on the labeler and on the feeds had me
working through a lot of questions that it turns out, I
would need to answer pretty soon.
So things settled for a while.
But that brings us to last year, 2025.
That's when the delistings happened.
A radical group put pressure on payment processors like Visa and Master
Card, who in turn put pressure on game platforms to
delist adult and not-safe-for-work
games from Steam.
It happened overnight.
There was no warning.
Game developers were waking up to find their content gone, and
the appeals process was scattered at best.
Now, it doesn't matter if you play or care for
adult or not-safe-for-work games.
Some people do.
And regardless, those games deserve to exist.
And the developers that make them deserve to be able to express
their art.
But the delistings didn't stop at adult content.
Marginalized communities like LGBT developers and developers of color
also got swept up.
Many of these games had nothing to do with adult content,
but they were flagged or pulled because the dragnet
on the delistings was wide.
And the appeals process, again, was barely functional.
A few months later, the same thing happened on itch
.
io, which has long been considered a bastion for indie
games, especially the weird ones.
Developers woke up to find their games gone, revenue gone
, visibility completely wiped.
And because none of that data belonged to the developers, there
was little they could do.
Now, remember I'm running the labelers, I'm
running the largest game dev feeds on Blue Sky.
I have tens of thousands of developers in this community.
They're not strangers, they're people that I interact with
regularly.
People I've built a reputation with that have put their trust
in me as a steward of this community.
So they started reaching out.
Throughout all of this, they were posting publicly and reaching out
to me privately in DMs.
And the question was, what can we do to survive this
?
How can we use the atmosphere to make it so that no
platform and no payment processor has the power to make a developer
's work disappear?
At first, I said, I don't know, good
luck.
I already had a lot on my plate, but it sort
of stuck in my head.
I couldn't really quit thinking about it.
So I did start building.
Before I get into what I actually built, yeah, I
know I do a lot of prefaces.
I'm going to share some things that I picked up along
the way.
Throughout all this work, I've been trying to convince game
developers to migrate from Twitter to Blue Sky, onto the atmosphere
.
And in all of those conversations, I've had to explain
why Blue Sky and the atmosphere mattered.
And I had to do it to people who could not care
less about the protocol.
But if the blueprint that I'm handing you today is going
to work for other industries, you're going to need to
do the same thing.
So one thing to keep in mind with this is that while
game devs are people too, they're not average users
.
They're creators.
They often use social media more like a storefront than anything
else.
So it's a little bit different than talking to your average
individual that's just setting up their social media.
So I'm essentially speaking to them like businesses, not individuals
.
With that in mind, here's the framing that I found
actually clicks.
Number one, you choose who stewards your data.
We all know this one, right?
You get to decide who's responsible for your data.
If you sign up on Blue Sky, they're the ste
ward of your data.
If you signed up on Black Sky, you can thank Rudy
and his team for keeping it safe.
And if you're deeper in the atmosphere, like a lot
of us in this room, maybe your data is on a
raspberry pie in your kitchen.
I don't know.
The point is, it's your choice.
The control is in your hands, and you can choose a
new steward later, even if the current one doesn't
want you to leave.
Steam would never.
Number two, your data works everywhere.
If I make a post on Blue Sky, any other app
that supports those posts, Black Sky, North Sky, Euros
ky, and a soda, and about a gajillion
more, can also see that post.
Users on those platforms can like it and engage with it.
And if you choose a new steward later, you can
take all of that data with you because it belongs to you
, not to any single platform.
And number three, the community is smaller.
But this is real.
On Twitter, you scream into an algorithm that prioritizes exploitation
over engagement.
On Blue Sky, when you post about your game, the
people who've opted into the game dev feed, they're
there for that content.
So they actually see it.
Your screenshot Saturday posts get real engagement from people who genuinely care
, not bots and drive-by follows.
For anyone trying to build an audience, whether that's game
devs, musicians, educators, whoever, a smaller community
paying attention is worth far more than a massive one that isn
't.
So that's it.
That's what's been working for me.
You own your data, it works everywhere, and the people
here are actually engaged.
That's the spiel that's been working really well for
bringing these folks over to the atmosphere.
So I'd encourage all of you to steal it, because
you'll need it when the people in your industry start asking
why they should care.
Okay, so back to the building.
The community was asking for help, and I had an idea
of how to give it.
The first question I had to answer was, what does video
game data look like on the atmosphere?
Right now, every platform has its own answer.
Steam has its own data format, Epic has its own,
and then there's IGDB, which is worth pausing
on.
Because IGDB is the de facto game database for most of
the industry.
Discord pulls game data from IGDB.
So does Xbox, so does Epic, GOG, Unity
, dozens of major companies depend on it.
And it's owned by Twitch, which is owned by Amazon
.
Fun fact, Amazon also owns IMDB.
One company controls the authoritative databases for film, television,
and games.
Every one of the platforms I mentioned earlier is building on data
owned by a single corporation, and the developers whose games are
in the IGDB, they're guests.
They can submit corrections, but they don't own anything.
In my conversations with game developers, I found a lot of
them didn't even know that their games were on the platform
, and they certainly didn't know that they could edit it
.
So that's a supply chain risk for an entire industry.
And for me, sitting there with a community, asking what
can we do, it felt pretty obvious where to start.
Step one was defining a shared language for games on the atmosphere
.
The game lexicons cover everything about a game that you
'd want in any application on the network.
The game itself, title, descriptions, genres, platforms,
release dates, screenshots, it's offshoots, expans
ions, downloadable content, updates, mods, and then
of course the data around it as well.
So achievements, high scores, reviews, and credits for contributors
.
But because these are lexicons on the protocol, they
're not locked to any single application.
The developer publishes their game data once to their own PD
S, and any application on the network that understands the le
xicons can display it, search it, reference it.
Right now, a game developer updating their game's description has
to do it on Steam, Epic, GOG, Hum
ble, Itch, IGDB, their own website,
their press kit, their publisher's website.
With the atmosphere, update it once, it propagates everywhere
.
Well, kinda.
We have to be honest about our expectations for adoption, right
?
Those other platforms aren't going to start pulling from the atmosphere
tomorrow just because the data is there.
We build the foundation, though, because we have to start
somewhere.
So we build the foundation, we prove the value, and
then over time, we either convince platforms to adopt it,
or we build something so compelling that they don't really have
a choice.
That's the long game.
Now, lexicons by themselves are just definitions.
You still need something to make them work on the network.
Blue Sky calls it an app view.
Others call it an app server, or an API, or
a flibbity gibbet.
There's a lot of things.
The proper name and description of an app view are hotly
contested.
But really, it's just the layer that sits between the
data on the network and the people trying to use it.
If lexicons are the shared language, the app views
are the applications that speak it.
Traditionally, building an app view means writing custom software from
scratch for your specific use case.
You have to handle indexing records from the network.
You have to implement queries and procedure XRPCs.
You have to know what XRPCs are.
You probably need to handle authentication, and you'll likely need
additional infrastructure, databases, search indexes.
That's a significant amount of work, and it's a
real barrier for anyone who wants to build on the atmosphere.
So, I built HappyView.
HappyView is a lexicon-driven app view builder
.
You upload your lexicons, it dynamically generates XR
PCs for querying and writing data, watches the network
for new records in your lexicon collections, it index
es them, and it proxies rights back to users
' PDSs.
You define the schema, you upload it, you have a
working app view.
Auth included, out of the box, totally open source,
but HappyView isn't specific to games.
It's generic.
It's open source infrastructure, so you can use it for
whatever industry you're currently looking at.
The game lexicons are the first production use case built
on HappyView, but I'm hoping they will not be
the last.
Now, I used HappyView and the games lexicons
to create the Pinteract app view.
Some of you all may know it by its sort of infamous
handle, games.
games.
And of course, that means that the NSID for the
game lexicon is games.
games.
game.
You're welcome.
Shout out to Ted Han, by the way, for appoint
ing me at that domain and coming up with the much simpler
name I mentioned just a minute ago, the Pinteract
.
The Pinteract currently holds data for more than 350,
000 games across all platforms.
You can think of the Pinteract as the alternative to
the IGDB API.
It's the open, decentralized version of the game data layer
that the whole industry has been building on.
And it's currently live and open, so feel free to
go play with it after I'm done.
I'll be holding links to the end because I know you
rascals better than to restrain yourselves from a new
toy.
Now that the data layer was in place, I needed a
way for everyday users, both gamers and developers, to access
that data.
So that's where Cartridge comes in.
Cartridge is the first application built on the Pinteract
.
It's a games database, sure, an alternative to IG
DB itself, but it's also a games discovery platform for
players, where I'm building features to make it easier for
gamers to find the games that they love.
But more importantly, and sort of back to the mission,
it's where developers can go to take control of their game
's data.
Game developers aren't going to interact with raw lexicons
and app views and XRPCs, and they shouldn
't have to.
They're building games, not infrastructure for the atmosphere.
When a developer signs in, they get a dashboard, from
there they can create game records, update descriptions, upload screenshots
, manage credits, all the stuff that they're currently doing
across 10 different platforms.
Except now they're doing it once on their terms, and
the data lives in their PDS.
Okay, that actually means they're doing it 11 times now
, but we talked about this long game.
Now, IGDB itself has around 350,000 games.
That may sound familiar, because that's about how many games
we have on cartridge.
Actually, that's exactly the same number, because IGDB
is the original source of all the data that is currently in
the Pinteract.
And yes, I did check.
IGDB's API allows me to do that.
But it gets better over time, as developers claim and take
ownership of their games.
They enrich the data, and we can build a rich graph
of the data between games and other things on the network,
like blue sky posts, pop feed.
social reviews, leaflet and pocket articles referencing games.
And there are technical advantages, real technical advantages to using the
Pinteract app view over IGDB.
There's no Twitch credentials necessary for one thing.
You get unauthenticated API access, we have semantic
search instead of plain text matching, and we have discovery feeds
that IGDB simply doesn't offer.
But the important part isn't the feature comparison.
It's what happens when a developer actually claims their game.
They verify ownership, they claim the record, and they migrate
it to their PDS.
Now it's theirs, fully.
Their data is managed by the steward of their choice rather
than the devil, I mean Amazon.
If cartridge disappears tomorrow, their game data would still be on
the network in their PDS accessible to any application that speaks
to the lexicons.
That right there, that's what data sovereignty means, right
?
It's not just a buzzword, it's a technical
reality.
We're doing it on the atmosphere.
Now cartridge isn't officially launched.
I can't tell you about tremendous user growth or anything.
There's no press releases, no big announcements, and I
still have some work to finish before I'm comfortable really opening
the floodgates on the application.
So the social proof of all this may feel a little bit
flimsy, but what's happened during development is what
really tells me that I've been on the right track.
When I started sharing my work on the Pinteract publicly
, developers started responding with use cases I hadn't considered.
Luca from the Northsky team brought up managing a game's
credits and updating them regularly.
You allow games to fetch those credits and fix developers dead names
.
I hadn't considered that.
I'm a straight white guy.
But for trans developers in the game industry, that's not
a niche concern, right?
That's their name.
It's important.
And right now, getting a credit updated in a shipped game
is a nightmare of bureaucracy and platform policies.
With developer-controlled credits on protocol, it's an update
to a record owned by that contributor.
Somebody else started talking about player-owned save data, cloud
saves.
And this one's a little personal for me.
City of Heroes, some of you may remember, it was
a really popular MMO, massively multiplayer online game, owned
by NCSoft and developed by Paragon Studios.
It was released in 2004.
I played it way too much.
And eight years later, in 2012, NCSoft term
inated the entirety of the Paragon Studios staff, shut down
the game, and shut down the servers.
The time invested in these characters that people had created, that
they loved, the experience that players so thoroughly enjoyed, it
was all gone.
Seemingly forever.
Years later, a community on Reddit actually revived the game.
They had a private server and they sort of, you know
, hit it for a while.
But they were able to bring it back, which is incredible
.
Except all the original player data is gone.
I can't load up the characters that I made and fell
in love with a decade ago.
They don't exist anymore.
My inner child is sad.
So is my outer child.
On the protocol, that save data could live in the player
's PDS.
The game shuts down, gets revived five years later, ten
years later.
Your saves are still there.
Now for competitive games, that save data could live, sorry
, you need some form of verification.
You can't let people write, "I got a perfect
score" into their repos when you're trying to compare
scores.
So I actually use Nick Garakine's attestation
spec already to allow you to have that information stored in the
player's repos, where it is still non-cop
yable.
It's non-forgeable.
It's verifiable.
So I'm also building game engine SDKs for Unity,
Unreal, and Godot, which are all game engines.
So developers can interact with all this data directly from within the
tools that they already use without ever having to think about the
protocol underneath.
And there's more on the horizon.
Decentralized modding, game distribution, sales.
These are big unsolved problems on the atmosphere, but the
foundational pieces for doing it, at least with games, are
already on the network.
Game data, developer identity, player identity, that's all
ready to go.
So the question about how to do this is just how.
It's not if.
Okay.
I just walked you through my entire journey.
The feeds, the labeler, the delistings,
and how they drove me to create the lexicons,
HappyView, and Cartridge.
Now, let's talk a little bit about what other atmosphere
builders can hopefully take away from it.
I took a community that I was already a part of.
I found the data that causes the most pain for my community
, which in my case was games scattered across platforms that developers
don't control, and I built tools and infrastructure that let
them own it.
That's not unique to games, though.
It's a pattern, and once you see it, it
's a little difficult to unsee.
Take music, for example.
An artist releases a track, and now they're managing metadata
across Spotify, Apple Music, Bandcamp, SoundCloud,
YouTube, Tidal.
Every platform has its own dashboard, its own format, and
its own rules.
An artist gets dropped, or a distributor folds, and suddenly
the musician's catalog is in limbo.
Their fans can't find their music, their revenue disappears.
It's the same pattern, but it's a different industry
.
How about education?
That's a weird one, right?
Your degree, your credentials, your transcripts, they're
all locked within institutional silos that may or may not still exist
in 20 years.
If you don't get how this is relevant, try transferring
credits between universities, or getting a copy of your degree after
the original was destroyed.
The pattern is always the same.
Data is published to centralize third-party platforms that we
don't control, and formats we don't choose, and
we hope that nothing goes wrong.
When it does, we have little to no recourse.
Now, here's the thing.
Everything I've built for games, the lexicon,
the management platform, the claim and migration system, what I
've built is game-specific, but the infrastructure isn't
.
HappyView, which is open source, doesn't care what
your data is.
It just needs lexicons.
Now, let me try and make this even a little more
concrete.
Let's say you want to solve this particular piece of the
puzzle for the music industry, right?
Step one, what data is scattered?
Track metadata, album metadata, artist credits, licensing agreements,
distribution records, right?
So step two, we define the lexicons for those
things.
What's a track?
It has a title, a duration, it has contributors and
rights holders, release dates, and it's going to point
to a blob that represents the audio, right?
What's an album?
It's a collection of tracks with its own metadata, like
its title.
An artist is going to have a discography, collaborators,
rights relationships, and maybe that's an actor in our le
xicon, right?
You design those schemas for step three, upload them to
HappyView, or you know, quick slice if you want
to try other options, and now you've got an app
view that indexes music data from the network.
Step four, you build the interface, right?
This is the easy part, right?
Where an artist logs in, claims their catalog, and is
now in control of their own data.
It's the same pattern I followed for games, just different
domain knowledge.
So that's it.
You can do this for music, for education, you can
do it for healthcare records, for legal documents, for anything
where centralization is failing the people who create the data.
This is one pattern.
It's not the only centralization problem out there, but
your domain might have a slightly different one, locked up credentials
, gated access, licensing nightmares.
The pattern might look slightly different, but the tooling that I
've shown you today, it should be generic enough to handle
pretty much all of them.
The hardest part is figuring out what data in your domain actually
needs to be decentralized, and then designing lexicons that
accurately represent it.
That's domain expertise, not protocol expertise, and that's
why it really has to come from people who know their industries
, not from people outside guessing at what a community needs.
One more thing.
I've been talking about the protocol a lot because y'
all are the people building on it, right?
But when I'm talking to a game developer about cartridge or
about blue sky, none of this comes up.
They don't know what an app view is.
Like I said earlier, they don't care about XR
PCs.
They just want to manage their game data and not get screwed
by big corporations.
The protocol is invisible in the product and in the conversations.
That's not an accident.
That's the whole point.
Everything I've built treats at protocol as an implementation detail,
not the selling point.
It's not why a game developer would use cartridge.
They'd use it because it solves their problems.
The protocol is just how it works under the hood.
So when you go to build for your industry, that's
the mindset that's going to get people to use what you
make.
Don't sell the protocol, solve the problem.
The protocol is what makes your solution possible, but it's
never the pitch.
Thank you.
That was fantastic, Tracy.
I hope a bunch of people are lighting up their scrapers
and attacking so many other industries.
The fire safety talk was one that would pair really nicely with
yours because they have the same pain.
Thank you.
Awesome.
Yep.